welcome back
so in this session we're going to
endeavor to
begin to learn about test driven
development
rather than endlessly running a console
and seeing what happens or doesn't
happen we're gonna
take advantage of the test driven
development
mentality so i'm adding a new project
to the solution in this case it's going
to be
an n-unit test project
based on the.net core and
briefly end unit is a test library
that's been written by the community
that's
fairly popular so that's what we're
going to use
in this case i'm going to use the
project name
price correlation calculator
and tack on to the end of it tests
because this project is going to be
all about the tests for the classes
that live within the price correlation
calculator
so we have to wait just a moment
for the setup to
[Music]
finish and after that we ought to see
the red go away okay
that's excellent so
thinking a little bit real time during
[Music]
this session so
i will summarize a few things as we go
and highlight some portions of the code
first thing to say there is the end unit
framework
that i was speaking of so that has been
added
as a package
into the test project we'll talk about
packages in a minute
and then we have a new namespace which
is the same as our project
and this class
right now is a template it says tests
so let's well before we rename
that let's discuss we have a
setup phase and a testing phase
those brackets are attributes
that mark
special methods within the test class
that the framework
and unit knows how to deal with
so let's call this
calculator test
and keeping with our convention we're
going to let the
productivity tool rename the file
so that it matches the class name
so there is that selection
voila so let's
save that file now that we've gotten the
naming
correct
and let's show a little bit in the
solution explorer to show what we've
done
so there we can see the new project
that's been added for the testing
and now we have a new subfolder
under the project which are these
packages
and this is simply
you can think of it as even yourself
packaging some
computer code that others could benefit
from so very much like that the end
unit has been packaged so that we can
utilize it within this project
as a pre-existing code library
so i'm just thinking real time how to
begin the tests let's just
run the test that's what that little
double
circular dot to the side indicates is
the ability to run the tests
and just make sure the test runner in
the environment is functioning
so right here we see the test passes
because it's coded that way it says
assert pass
so that's just to make sure that the ide
is
functioning correctly and
this test runner comes from the
productivity tool
but there also is one in visual studio
by itself
so and i'm going to
click the pin on that so it stays
persistent so we can
continue to look at it
and now we might think about what kind
of a test can we write
that is useful for our calculator class
and one of the best things to do
is actually to write a failing test
to make sure you can prove the test
fails
before you write the code to make the
test pass
so that is part of the plan for this
video
and just showing that the reason for
having this calculator test
is to test some functionality
of the calculator class that we started
working on
so right now we can see that
calculate correlation is not implemented
so maybe that would be a good idea for a
first test
to have a test running to prove
that that method is implemented
and to explain just a little bit
the setup method is some code that will
run
prior to the tests running
so for an example i want to initialize a
calculator
this is a case where the id
is actually working against me because
it doesn't know about calculator at the
moment
it thinks i want to write calculator
tests
so we'll get there
let's add a private variable in the
class
relating to a calculator
and then we can add the reference
so that it can understand the calculator
class
so this is good to show that not
everything goes
like clockwork and sometimes there are
some issues
that we have to work through
so i'm just going to get rid of that
name tests
and then if i click on the red
it should say hey do you want to add the
calculator class that i know about
within our solution
and i'm going to say yes please do that
and at that point we have the price
correlation calculator
and we have visibility of the calculator
class
very much like we set up the cli
to also know about the calculator class
and you can see that it has added the
project reference
for us now that it knows it's part of
the solution from previous work
now we're in a better position to
actually do something useful in the
setup
so we're going to create a new
calculator
and assign it to our private variable
within the test class
i'm just looking for a copy there's
that's quite a
expansive pop-up menu
so there i'm just copying calculator
over
okay good so now we're creating a new
calculator
assigning it to calculator and the
reason we would do
something like that in the setup is so
that it is initialized
and we could use it in the actual tests
so now we need to think of a name for
the test
that begins to represent some of our
intent
and we'd like to test that
calculate correlation is in much better
condition
than it is right now so i know i want
that name as part of the test so
calculate correlation
and then perhaps the first basic test
would say
is it implemented so that we get rid of
that
exception that it's presently throwing
so there's the name calculate
correlation
is implemented and
in order to do that we're going to make
use of the assert
functionality and it has a does
not throw so we're going to be
checking that we can run the method
without throwing that exception that it
presently throws
so calculator calculate correlation
so if that function was successfully
implemented without errors
the test we just wrote the assertion
would pass and running it at this point
we hope it fails because otherwise it
wouldn't make sense
so this is good we've expected that no
exception would be thrown
based on the assert statement
and lo and behold because we haven't
done the work yet
we see that the method or operation is
not implemented
so that is more than enough for
this installment of the coding videos
so we can now claim that we have written
our first
failing test and begin work to make that
test pass
so thank you for watching